Load balancer-  
  It operates at L3 (IP), L4 (TCP/UDP), L7 (Application Context)

Supports session affinity

Internet facing Loadbalancer:
  Maps the public IP of virtual n/w with the Private Ip's of virtual network
  It is bi-directional
  Request to and from VM is routed through LB
  
Internal LB:
  Within the internal n/w to balance traffic between two internal services
  To loadbalance traffic b/w data tier and business tier
  
  
  Benefits of LB:
    . Any kind of traffic across virtual n/w
    . Can route UDP/TCP or port forwarding
    . Direct server return for bandwidth intensive traffic
    . Allows tiered routing in N-Tier architecture
    . Helps to scale out the Virtual machine instances
    . Can be used to pool multiple public IP's
    . Monitoring and Health probe
    
  Drawbacks:
    . Implementation cannot be granualar (based on protocol)
    . Requires HTTP probe running on each VM, i.e. to know if server is alive and can handle request
    
    Note:
      To balance traffic b/w IP or IP range
      to balance traffic b/w n-tier architecture
      Coordinate traffic b/w Virtual n/w and On-premise n/w
      Port forwarding requet
    
Application Gatway?    
 Works at Level-7 - HTTP and HTTPS loadbalancing
 - It requires websocket support
 - Web application firewall to secure applications (Bots, scanner, SQL injection, filtering, XSS)
 - Context based routing:
  . round robin
  . weighted round robin
  . Least connection
  . Weighted Least connection
  . Wighted response time
  . Session affinity or Sticky session
  . Chained failover
  . Source IP hash
  . Custom balancing
  
- SSL encryption and End To End ecryption
  
Note:
  . Easy to configure then loadbalancer
  . Can protect again security risks or Web attacks
  . SSL intensive workloads
  
  
 Where to Use both Application Gateway and Loadbalancer?
  1) Application gateway should be used for presentation tier
  2) Loadbalancer should be used to balance traffic for data tier i.e. Compute and Data tier
  
  






