Speech
Planning
NLP
Robotics
Expert Systems
Machine learning
Vision

1) Machine Learning - 
 a) Supervised
 - Classification -> Results Qualitative data
   A classification problem is when the output variable is a category, such as “red” or “blue” or “disease” and “no disease”.
  Naive bayes, Logistic Regression, Support Vector machine (SVM) algorithm ... 
 - Regression -> Results Quantitative data
 A regression problem is when the output variable is a real value, such as “dollars” or “weight”.
  Linear regression, Simple linear, Multiple Linear regression aglorithms ...
  
  - The Goal is Predicting
  
 b) Un-supervised
  - Data might not be labeled
  - The Goal is Finding simillar Object
  
  Clustering: A clustering problem is where you want to discover the inherent groupings in the data,
    such as grouping customers by purchasing behavior.
  Association:  An association rule learning problem is where you want 
    to discover rules that describe large portions of your data, such as people that buy X also tend to buy Y.
  
  Unsupervised learning is where you only have input data (X) and no corresponding output variables.
  The goal for unsupervised learning 
  is to model the underlying structure or distribution in the data in order to learn more about the data.
  
  These are called unsupervised learning because unlike supervised learning above 
    there is no correct answers and there is no teacher. 
  Algorithms are left to their own devises to discover and present the interesting structure in the data.
 
 c) Reinforcement learning
 Reinforcement learning is an area of Machine Learning. Reinforcement. 
 It is about taking suitable action to maximize reward in a particular situation. 
 It is employed by various software and machines to find the best possible behavior 
 or path it should take in a specific situation. 
 Reinforcement learning differs from the supervised learning in a way that 
 in supervised learning the training data has the answer key with it so the model 
 is trained with the correct answer itself whereas in reinforcement learning, 
 there is no answer but the reinforcement agent decides what to do to perform the given task. 
 
 Example - Alpha Go
 


Training Data - To train and create an appropriate model
Test data - to verify the model













