A ride sharing application that connects passengers with the riders who own a car

1) What is Uber?
  It provides its customer business to book a cab.
  Uber drivers owns personal cars to drive customers around.
  
2) Requirements?
  Functional requirements?
    The types of user - Drivers, Customers
    . Drivers need to notify the location and availability to pick a passenger
    . Passenger get to see all nearby drivers
    . Customers can request a ride; nearby drivers are notified that a customer is ready to be picked up
    . Once driver and customer accept the ride;; each knows the others location constantly
    . Upon reaching the detination, drivers marks the journey as complete
    
 3) Estimations?
  . 300 Millions customers and 1 Million drivers whereas 1M daily active users and 500K daily active drivers
  . 1 Million rides booked
  . All drivers notify the current location every three seconds
  . Once customer puts a request for ride; system connects to driver in realtime
  
  
 4) High level system design?
  We can use QuadTree as advanced datastructure to handle request from the drivers to customers.
  The challenge this solution implementing with QuadTree is - number of updates are lower
  
  . Since all the drivers are actively reporting the location to the system every three seconds
  . Updating QuadTree for every change has performance critical impact; as it takes lot of time
    - If Grid has been changed while driving the drivers should be removed and reinserted in different grid
    - If new grid reaches the upperbound; then QuadTree will have split based on repartition
    
    
   . We need to have a quick mechanism to propagate current location of all nearby drivers to each customer
   . System should support writes about the current location of driver
   
   
Note: A fast read is guranteed using quad Tree but fast write

Q. Do we need to update our quad tree if driver updates the location?
  Not updating the quad tree will store the old data and will not reflect the current location of drivers
  - Building quadtrees is to find nearby  locations efficiently
  
  If we keep the latest position reported by all drivers in a hash table and update our QuadTree less frequently
  Example-
    We update quadtree after some interval whereas HashTable store the current location of driver
    
    
Q. Memory needed to store Hashtable?
  . 3 byte driver ID - 1 Million drivers
  . Old latitude and lonogitude 16 bytes
  . New latitude and longitude 16 bytes
  Total - 35 bytes and overhead metadata of HashTable
  
  Having said that, 1 million total drivers - 
  1 million * 35 byte per driver = 35 MB of data
    

Q. How much bandwidth is consumed by system?
  We send the driver ID and new location driver is at present
  8 + 8 + 3 (driver ID) = 19 byte i.e. 1 million cutomers need 19 Mb per three seconds
  
  
Q. How to distribute driver location to multiple servers?
  . Memory and bandwidth requirement can fit on one server but for scalibility, performance, and fault tolerant
  Hash table should be distributed efficiently among multiple servers to handle the request
  
  . As soon as the servers receives the driver update, it will be broadcasted to all the servers needed
  . Quad server need to notify another Quad server to refresh the driver locatiion
  
  
 Q. how efficiently we need to broadcast the driver location?
  A push model or fan-out-on-load; where server will push position of driver to relevant or nearby users
  . A dedicated notification service to broadcast the current location of driver
  . The service support events and built oon top of 250 to 
  
  . When uber client has been started it processes the nearby location of dirver
  . Maintain a list of drivers and customer s to store the updaed Driver Cur


Q> How much memory is required to suppport by system?
  1 Million day active users and 500 K daily active drivers
  Say five customers are aligned to One driver
  
  500 K * 3 bytes for driver ID and 500 K * five * eight?
    21 Mb is the result
    
 Q. hwo much bandwidth is required to store driver location?
  5 * 500 K = 2.5Mb
  
  Q. To all the customers?
    3 byte drivers ID
    8 byte customer ID
    16 byte location
    
    2.5 MB * 19 byte = 47.4 mbps
    
    
   Q. How to implement notification service?
    . A long polling method for each websocket
    . A server sent event, doesn't waste resources
    
    
    . Pull request from the server
    
  Q. Pull request from the server?
    If clients request a pull request from the server to identify the nearby location of each driver
    Upon receiving information; client update the UI and requery the server for new location after five seconds
    
    
Q. Do we need to repartition the grid; as soon it reaches the maxium request?
  
  
  
  A normal workflow?
    . Customer will put a request for a ride
    . One of the aggeregator server identifies the nearby driver querying all the quad Trees
    . Aggregator server collects all the results and sort them by rating
    . Aggregator will send a notification to top three drivers
     - The driver which accepts the first will have the ride
     - Other driver will recieve cancellation request
     - The aggregator will request a ride from teh next three drivers
     . Once driver accepted the request; a customer has been notified
     
     
     
 5) Fault tolerant and Replication?
  Master slave replication of each server; if master dies then slave has been elected as new Master 
  
6) Ranking?
  Rank the drivers by popularity or relevance
  
  Return top rated drivers within the range?
    We ask each partition of quad tree to provide top 10 drivers with maximum rating
    The aggregator service will metge the results of two services and rank them according to rank number
    
    
    
  
  








