
Ways to sync between players

A) Deterministic Lock step

  1) TCP X
  2) Playout buffer - Save all the packets from multiple online clients in the buffer
    . This will add gitter/delay once packet received
    . This is based on TCP - if the packet is dropped or late, client need to resend the packet
    . Resending will add lot of delay 


    Options:
    a) UCD? unreliable and connectionless protocol
      .
      
  Note: any delay or problems in one sync will impact complete stream
  
B) State Synchronization-
  This is to resolve sync the state of object (Position, linear velocity, angular velocity, orientation...)
  The bandwidth required is in Kb/s and Mb/s
  
  - This solution does have a jitter issues,  and polarization can be used to predict the state of object
  
  We have state machines for each object example - A player is jumping and then what are the next possible states
  
  
 C) State Machine pattern: it allows us to implement state machines using OOP
  . Every state mainitains a class
  . Deligate a state



Online Gaming system design backend?
  1. Connect to Patch server, if any updates in the game are required
  2. Players Login to the system for authentication
  3. Players looks up multiple playes from API
  4. A game session has been established 
  
  World Server:
  A clusture a world severs stores the informationa bout the client and game session currently running
  It also provide information about the actual game server where game is running
  
  Game Servers:
    The clusture of servers where actual gaming computation is done
    
  Area server: (A data strucute used is Map template, a single pattern is heavily used)
    A game map  is divide across area servers, which stores players information

    Issues?
      A player is quicly switching regions or area over the map which was divided across multiple servers
      
    Fault tolerant if server failed, what are the requirements
    
     Solution?
      . Only serialize important object states
      . Only if changed
      . Always serialize cached object
      . Aync saving of states (We can use write-back cache or Queue)





