This is service which provides results for near by restaurants, theaters, shopping mall, ATM...

1) What is Proximity server?
  These are the servers used to provide details of near by business, Example.
    . Nearby shopping mall, ATM, food, friend, metro station...
    
   
2) Requirements?
  Functional requirements?
    These are the servers used to provide details on nearby services
    . User should be able to add/update/delete the places
    . Given location, users should be able to find nearby business
    . User should be able to review an d provide feedback on the system e.g. adding photos, comments, likes
  
  Non-Functional requirements?
    . user should be able to search nearby places with minimum latency
    . More number of search request from user about the updated nearby places
    
3) Estimations?
  We have 500 Million daily active users, and 100 K queries per second. 
  . We have a growth of 20% request each year
  
4) Database schema?
  Each location denotes as-
  . Location ID (8 byte) - uniquly identifies the location
  . Name - 256 byte
  . Latitude - 8 byte
  . Longitude - 8 byte
  . Description - 500 byte
  . Category - 1 byte
  
  Total size - 793 bytes with 500 Million active users
  
  Reviews-
    . Review ID
    . Location ID
    . Review text
    . Rating
    
    
  
 5) System API: 
  search(apiDevKey, userId, userLocation, searchQuery, radiusFilter, maximumResultsToReturn, categoryFilter, sorted, pageToken)
  
  Parameters:
api_dev_key (string): The API developer key of a registered account. 
This will be used to, among other things, throttle users based on their allocated quota.
searchQuery (string): A string containing the search terms.
userId
user_location (string): Location of the user performing the search.
radius_filter (number): Optional search radius in meters.
maximum_results_to_return (number): Number of business results to return.
category_filter (string): Optional category to filter search results, e.g., Restaurants, Shopping Centers, etc.
sort (number): Optional sort mode: Best matched (0 - default), Minimum distance (1), Highest rated (2).
page_token (string): This token will specify a page in the result set that should be returned.

Returns: (JSON)
A JSON containing information about a list of businesses matching the search query. 
Each result entry will have the business name, address, category, rating, and thumbnail.
  
6) High level system design?
  At high level, the system should be read efficient and the results returned from the system should be real-time
  
  . The system would be static to store nearby object with minor updates on real-time e.g. a food shop would be at same Location
  
  a) SQL solution?
    We store all the business objects as longitude and latitude location
    where both columns are indexed.
    . Execute a select query to return the result from the system as 
      Latitude = location.latidue -+ radiusFilter
      Longitude = location.longitude -+ radiusFilter
      
     The best way to use is Pythagorean theorem to calculate the distance difference
     
     Query Efficiency?
      Each index longitude and latitude return results of places and we need to intersect these results.
      The query can be efficiently executed by sharding the data based on location and places
      
      
    b) Grids?
      Divide the Map into smaller grids to group locations into smaller sets, 
      Each grid will store all the places within a specific range of latitude and longitude
      
      This enables us to query only few grids to find the nearby places on the map
      Query the nearby or neighbouring grids to find the location/places
      
      What would be a reasonable grid size?
        Grid size would be equal to the radius we want to search in.
        Grids would be statically defined so, the location of grid can be easily found and in the nearby grid
        
        
      *) Should be indexed stored in the main memory?
        Maintaing the indexes in memory will imporve the overall performance of the system
        Key: GridID
        Value: List<Places> -> list of nearby places 
        
        
      *) How much memory we need to store particular location?
        . 4 byte number to store the grid ID
        . 8 byte number to store location ID
        . Total number of grids
          - 200 Million square miles area
          - 10 miles radius 
          Gives us-
            20 Million grids
            
          (20 Million grids * 4 byte grid ID) + (8 byte location ID * 500 Million active users) = 4 GB
          
        
      c) Dynamic Grid Size?
        As the palces are unevenly distributed among the grids, few grids might have larger number of locations
        whereas other may have none.
        Solution:
          To use grid with dynamic size based on the number of locations
          
          
       What does it mean?
        A grid with a upper bound - 500 places if the number of places exceeds then a grid is divided into four equal parts
        
       What data structure can hold this information?
        A tree in which each node has four children called quad trees can suffice the requirement to store data in the grid
        
        If a node reaches our limit, break down the node into four children, and distribute the places among children
        
    *) How to build quad trees?
      Start with a node represent whole world, 
      It has more than upper bound i.e. 500 locations
      Divide the node into four children and ditribute the places among these children
      
      
      Note: The recurssive process continues until there are no grids/nodes covering more than upper bound of places
      
     *) How to find the node from the grid?
      Start with the root node,
      and find the node / grid required.
      - If node doesn't have any more children, that is our desired node
     
     *) How to find the neighbouring nodes?
      Since all the leaf nodes has the locations,
       Connect all the leaf nodes with a doubly linked list, we can iterate neighbouring nodes forward and backward to find the location
       
       Or
       
       keep a pointer to the parent node, will help us in traversing all the children which are neighbouring nodes
       
       
    *) Search workflow?
      . Find the node that contains user location
      . If node has enough desired places, return these places to user
      . If require more places to be returned, find the places in neighbouring node
      . Aggregate and rank and send the response to user
      
    *) Storage estimations for quad tree?
      24 (location ID, latitude and longitude all 8 byte) * 500 M (locations to be stored) = 12 Gb
      
     500 M (locations) / 500 (places per grid) = 1 Million grids
       
    i.e. 1 million leaf nodes to store total of 12 Gb of data.
    
    A quad tree with 1 M leaf nodes have 1/3 internal nodes and each node has 8 byte pointer to children
    
    1 million * (1/3) internal nodes * 4 * 8 byte (internal pointers) = 10 MB
    
    
    *) Adding a new node:
      it will be inserted into the database and quad tree, 
      
      

7) Data sharding?
  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  














