Which one to favor? SOAP or REST?
   REST based services are preferred due to simplicity, performance, scalibility and support for multiple data formats
   SOAP is favored over rest for comprehensive support of security and transactional reliability of distributed is required.
   
   REST is better for exposing data 
   SOAP is better for exposing business functionalities
   
   Do we need a standard contract of communication b/w consumer and server? SOAP with WSDL
   Do we need to support multiple data formats for Accept: header in the HTTP? REST is preferred
   AJAX calls? better alignment with REST
   Level of secutiry required b/w the communication? 
   Limited n/w bandwidth?
   And the resources to develop using any of the above technology


SOAP: Simple Object Access Protocol
 It uses XML message to communicate between service provider and client
 - Web Service Description Language(WSDL) - an XML format defines interface syntactically 
 A formal contract defines the inteface of offered webservice has to be established
 The WSDL describes operation, binding, message and the location of the webservice
 
 The design should handle complex NFRs like security, logging
 
 ** The WSDL must be parsed to read, so it is slow
 ** The XML is heavy when compared to other structures for DTO like JSON
 
REST:
 REST is an architectural style by which data can be transmitted over transport protocol such as HTTP(S).
 Each unique URL is a some representation of a resource (i.e Object like Account, Customer, etc),
   and you can get the contents of the resources (i.e Objects) via HTTP verb “GET” and to modify via “DELETE”,”POST”, or “PUT”.
 
 REST is about exposing a public API over the internet to handle CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations on data.
 REST is focused on accessing named resources through a single consistent interface.
 REST permits many different data formats like XML, JSON data, text, HTML, atom, RSS, etc. 
   JSON is less verbose than XML and is a better fit for data and parses much faster.
 Supports only point-to-point SSL security.
   SSL security focuses on-
     End to end encryption of transport channel i.e. source to destination
REST supports transaction but not ACID compliant not two phase commit across distributed systems
REST expects a stateless mechanism where each request is handled independently and to deal with retry failures 
 
SOAP?

SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) is a
standard communication protocol on top of transport protocols such as HTTP, SMTP, Messaging, TCP, UDP, etc.

SOAP is focused on accessing named operations, which implement some business logic through different interfaces.
SOAP only permits XML data formats.
Supports both SSL security and WS-security,
  which adds some enterprise security features. Supports identity through intermediaries, not just point to point SSL.
  WS-Security focuses on:
    encryption from the point of message origin
    secure parts of the message that needs to be secured
    Different parts of message can be secured using different encyrption algorithms
    
SOAP has comprehensive support for both ACID based transaction for shortlived
SOAP supports compensation mechanism for the long lived transactions
It also supports two phase commits across distributed resources
SOAP has succes and retry built in logic to have enhanced end-to-end reliability



SOA - when SOAP is present in service tier. This is system level architectural style to expose services to be used by consumers
WOA (Web oriented architecture) - When REST WS are used in service tier. This is interface level architectural style 


